# Configuration 

## The Root Module

Terraform configuration is defined using either [HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL)](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) syntax or JSON syntax. HCL syntax is by far the most common, and arguably the most readable, way to define Terraform configuration. JSON syntax is far less common than HCL syntax but it can be useful when Terraform configuration is generated by programs that do not have an HCL library.

A module is a collection of Terraform configuration files kept together in a directory.

Within a module, Terraform only reads the top-level configuration files. Configuration files in nested directories are seen as child modules and are not included in the configuration. As we'll see later, these child modules can be called during Terraform execution.

The root module is the module Terraform is executing against. By default, the root module is the working directory where Terraform is executed.

## HCL Syntax

Terraform uses the `.tf` file extension to represent configuration using HCL syntax.

Terraform utilizes two main HCL concepts to represent its configuration; attributes and blocks.

### Attributes

An attribute assigns the value of an `EXPRESSION` to a particular `IDENTIFIER`:

```hcl
IDENTIFER = EXPRESSION
```

The `IDENTIFIER` before the equal sign is referred to as the attribute name and the `EXPRESSION` after the equal sign is the attribute's value.

An `IDENTIFIER` can contain letters (`a-z`, `A-Z`), digits (`0-9`), underscores (`_`), and hyphens (`-`). However, the first character of an `IDENTIFIER` must not be a digit.

An `EXPRESSION` represents an attribute's value. This can either be a literal value or a programatically generated value.

This example attribute showcases an attribute named `image` whose value is a literal string:

```hcl
image = "nginx:latest"
```

This example attribute showcases an attribute named `image` whose value is programtically generated by evaluating the given conditional expression:

```hcl
image = var.use_latest_image == true ? "nginx:latest" : "nginx:1.20"
```

### Blocks

A block is a container used to hold other content.

Every block must have a `BLOCK_TYPE`:

```hcl
BLOCK_TYPE {}
```

Depending on the `BLOCK_TYPE`, blocks can take zero or more `BLOCK_LABEL`s:

```hcl
BLOCK_TYPE "BLOCK_LABEL" "BLOCK_LABEL" {}
```

Blocks can contain zero or more attributes:

```hcl
BLOCK_TYPE "BLOCK_LABEL" "BLOCK_LABEL" {
  # An attribute.
  IDENTIFIER = EXPRESSION

  # Another attribute.
  IDENTIFIER = EXPRESSION
}
```

Blocks can contain zero or more nested blocks:

```hcl
BLOCK_TYPE "BLOCK_LABEL" "BLOCK_LABEL" {
  # An attribute.
  IDENTIFIER = EXPRESSION

  # Another attribute.
  IDENTIFIER = EXPRESSION

  # A nested block.
  BLOCK_TYPE {}

  # Another nested block.
  BLOCK_TYPE {}
}
```

Here's an example block:

```hcl
resource "docker_container" "nginx" {
  name  = "nginx"
  image = "nginx:latest"

  labels {
    label = "environment"
    value = "development"
  }

  labels {
    label = "application"
    value = "nginx"
  }
}
```

Here's a breakdown of the above example block:

- The block type is `resource`.
- There are two block labels; `docker_container` and `nginx`.
- There are two attributes; `name` and `image`.
- There are two nested blocks; `labels` and `labels`. Each nested block has their own attributes.

### HCL Comments

HCL syntax supports comments:

- `#` begins a single-line comment.
- `//` is an alternative to `#`, but not preferred.
- `/*` and `*/` are the start and end delimiters for multi-line comments.

## JSON Syntax

Terraform uses the `.tf.json` file extension to represent configuration using JSON syntax.

Since JSON syntax is far less common than HCL syntax, we won't spend too much time on it. Instead, here's an example showing what a configuration using HCL syntax would look like if converted to JSON syntax.

HCL syntax:

```hcl
resource "docker_container" "nginx" {
  name  = "nginx"
  image = "nginx:latest"

  labels {
    label = "environment"
    value = "development"
  }

  labels {
    label = "application"
    value = "nginx"
  }
}
```

JSON syntax:

```json
{
  "resource": [
    {
      "docker_container": [
        {
          "nginx": [
            {
              "image": "nginx:latest",
              "labels": [
                {
                  "label": "environment",
                  "value": "development"
                },
                {
                  "label": "application",
                  "value": "nginx"
                }
              ],
              "name": "nginx"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### JSON Comments

JSON syntax supports a limited form of comments.

Create a JSON attribute `//` whose value is the text you wish to use as a comment:

```json
{
  "//": "This line is a comment.",
  "resource": [
    {
      "docker_container": [
        {
          "nginx": [
            {
              "image": "nginx:latest",
              "labels": [
                {
                  "label": "environment",
                  "value": "development"
                },
                {
                  "label": "application",
                  "value": "nginx"
                }
              ],
              "name": "nginx"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Additional Resources

- [HCL Native Syntax Specification](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/blob/main/hclsyntax/spec.md)
- [Terraform Language Syntax](https://www.terraform.io/language/syntax)
